We've been talking about losing to win, and I really appreciate, like I said, Pastor Tim, giving me the opportunity to preach, especially to have the opportunity to preach for Sundays in a row.
And I really enjoy that.
However, after next week, I'm really more than glad to hand the reins back over to him so that he can take us through the book of Ephesians.
We've been talking about losing to win.
And the first Sunday, we talked about how
surrender brings blessing.
You know, we talked about how the lepers who were outside the gate of the city that was being starved to death by the Arameans took a chance and they went to the Aramean camp and found that the camp had been deserted just like the Prophet said.
And they took all their treasure and all their things back to the camp and the whole, you know, exactly what Elijah said was going to happen, happen.
We talked about how sometimes, you know, God calls us to risk it all.
to do what it is that he's called us to do.
And then last week we talked about staying chained to the chariot, right?
Last week we talked about our time, that God wants our time.
We all have the same amount of time.
We all are busy.
We all want time for leisure.
We all want time for family.
We all want time for all the things that we consider important to us, but we also need to make time for God because he is the most important thing
to us.
And so then we also need to make time to serve God.
And we talked about how if you're too busy to serve God, then you're probably just too busy, period.
And then we talked about the triumphal entry of the Roman general into Rome and how they would burn the incense along the Appian Way.
And to some it was an incense of life because they knew that
that the group had been victorious, that the Roman army had been victorious, but to some it was a fragrance of death because they knew that some people would be executed.
And we talked about how the slaves were chained to the chariot of the general.
And that once we realized that God is our leader, that God is gonna take us where he wants to go, that God is going to direct our paths in the way that he wants to direct them, that our job is simply
to stay chained to the chariot.
Whether we're going through good times, whether we're going through bad times, we need to be individually chained to the chariot.
And then we also need to be chained to the chariot as a church to do what it is that God has called us to do in this place.
And today I'm gonna talk about surrendering your trust to the Lord.
We have to be careful sometimes about the things that we surrender our trust to.
And I heard a story about a preacher who went down and he got himself a horse.
And he said, man, I'm going to work with this horse and I'm going to train this horse.
And I actually worked for a pastor when I was 19 that did break horses for a living.
I mean, he was the toughest son of a gun I've ever been around.
His hands were like baseball gloves.
But the same was Brother Bill.
He would do that.
And so this preacher decides he's going to do that.
So he teaches, he's training the horse and he teaches the horse to stop when he says amen.
And he teaches the horse to charge forward when he says praise the Lord.
So he decides to go in, he gets this horse out of the barn.
He's just, he's just riding across, you know, riding across, go praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord.
And then he starts to notice all of a sudden that the horse is headed off a cliff.
And he kind of panics and he says, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
And then he finally remembers, oh, it's amen.
He says, amen.
And the horse stops just short of the cliff.
The old preacher's relieved and he says, oh, praise the Lord.
She got to be careful, right?
About who or what you put your trust in.
You know, there are some things that we don't want to surrender to.
For example, we don't want to surrender to sin.
We don't want to surrender to discouragement.
We don't want to surrender to doubt.
We don't want to surrender to despair or despondency.
But when it comes to our relationship with God, surrender is the only way to win.
I love World War II history.
And at the end of World War II, Germany was surrounded by the Allied forces from all sides.
And a few days after Hitler had committed suicide, the Germans wrote and said this.
The German command agrees for all German forces to lay down their arms and to surrender unconditionally.
All hostilities on land, on sea, or in the air by German forces to cease at 0800 hours.
British double summertime on Sunday, May 5th, 1945.
the German command to carry out at once.
And without argument or comment, all further orders that will be issued by the Allied powers on any subject.
That was a complete surrender.
They were even saying, we're surrendering to the point where you're under the Allied command.
And that's what God wants from us.
He wants our complete surrender.
He wants us to say, God, I come to you.
I've been working, trying to work with my own, you know,
faculties and my own talents and my own gifts with my own sweat and grit and all these kinds of things.
And I've been trying to do all these things, you know, maybe for you, but what I've neglected is staying chained to the chariot.
And so I haven't been spending time with you.
I haven't been spending time serving for you.
And you know, all that's going to do is just lead to despair and lead to frustration in every single area of your Christian life.
But when you finally come to the place
where you trust God enough to say, I surrender.
Then you'll feel the spiritual victory in your hearts and your minds.
Three days after this, Harry Truman, President Truman, issued the following proclamation in a time when some voices were trying to remove God from our public life and were reminded of Truman's words.
He said,
The Allied armies, through sacrifice and devotion and with God's help, have rung from Germany a final and unconditional surrender.
The Western world has been freed of the evil forces, which for five years and longer have imprisoned the bodies and broken the lives of millions upon millions of freeborn men.
They have violated their churches, destroyed their homes, corrupted their children and murdered their loved ones.
our armies of liberation have restored freedom to these suffering peoples whose spirit will be the oppressors could never enslave whose spirit and will the oppressors could never enslave for the triumph of spirit and of arms which we have won it is fitting that we as a nation give thanks to Almighty God who has strengthened us and given us the victory now therefore I
Harry S. Truman, President of the United States of America, do hereby appoint Sunday, May 13th, 1945 to be a day of prayer.
I call upon the people of the United States to unite in offering joyful thanks to God for the victory we have won and to pray that he will support us to the end of our present struggles and guide us into the way of peace.
You know, we could use a lot more national days of prayer right now as we look around the things that are happening in our country.
We could use a lot more of those.
And we have to remember, right, that the most powerful thing we can do is get on our knees and pray.
You know, a lot of us, we're just action-oriented people.
And for me, it's hard sometimes to just say, okay, no, have I stopped to pray about this?
Because, you know, men are like firemen.
They want to rush straight into a burning building without thinking about it.
You know, and sometimes we need to pray about it.
And the most important thing we can do right now for our country is to pray for our country and also to know that it is in God's hands and that God has a plan and he has a purpose of just what we're going to talk about today.
If you want to have a living dynamic relationship with God, you have to do the same thing that the Germans did.
You have to surrender your life
And what that really means is you decide I'm going to make Jesus, Lord of my life.
And a prayer for that might be, Lord, I give up, I lay down my rights, my abilities and my control.
Whatever he is you tell me to do, I'll do it.
And so like we've done the past couple of weeks, I just want you to take a moment and pray silently and say, God, open my ears and my heart to your word, to your spirit,
and teach me God how to give my trust to you.
Father, open our hearts and minds, God, to see and hear what your spirit has for us today.
Lay down the distractions, the things that we know we have to do this afternoon or tomorrow.
And Lord, help us to focus on you.
We desperately seek you.
We pray these things in Christ's name, amen.
Well, the passage for this message here is one that you all know well, Proverbs three, five and six.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding and all your ways acknowledge him and he will make your path straight.
Probably a lot of you have this verse hanging somewhere in your house.
If not, you certainly have it marked in your Bibles, and you've heard it your whole life.
You know, God does want you to succeed.
The question is, what is success?
And that first sermon that we talked about, success, it gave like that, if you remember, it broke it down by generations of, I'll be successful when I make, you know, $295,000 a year, and I have $5.3 million in the bank.
You know, some of them were like that.
Some of them were even further up than that.
But God's definition of success is not spelled M-O-N-E-Y.
It just isn't.
And it's not spelled F-A-M-E either.
So many people have such a lust for power that they're willing to do almost anything to get it and then to hold on to it.
And they think that power comes with celebrity,
and that power comes with money.
And in Satan's economy, a lot of times power does come with celebrity and power does come with money.
But Christians don't live according to Satan's economy.
Power comes in surrender.
Simple as that.
So we see here in this first part of this verse, trust is a learned behavior.
That's not our tendency to trust.
Now, some people trust people really easily, but for most people, especially as you get a little bit older, you know, and you started to have kind of issues with people that you used to trust, you kind of tend to become a lot more, you know, wary about, a lot more wary of them.
And, you know, we teach kids, kids, you know, will go up to just about anybody, right?
And if we're not careful, we have to teach our kids, you know, that,
They need to be careful about the trust that they place in other adults.
That they ought not to just go up to anybody.
That there are things in the world that seek to harm them.
And that they need to exercise a lot of caution.
You know, we're rightly told in a lot of circumstances not to talk to strangers.
And we certainly have to be careful about trusting them.
You know, I heard about this old lady that she was on a bus and she offered the driver some peanuts.
The driver, being polite, he accepted the peanuts and he munched them and every five minutes she gave him a handful more peanuts.
The driver says, well, why don't you eat those peanuts yourself?
And she said, I can't chew them.
I don't have any teeth.
The driver said, well, why do you buy them?
And she said, oh, I love to just eat the chocolate around them.
So you can't trust people, but you don't know real well.
But you know, when you drive across a bridge, you trust that that bridge is going to support the weight of your car.
You trust that it's been engineered and built on public highways, and it can support the weight of your vehicle.
Although I have learned that Washington has at various times had a little more trouble with this than some other states, so I'll get a little bit more nervous.
When you walk into a building for the first time, even today, when you walked in the sanctuary for the first time, especially if you're here for the first time or second time, you had to decide when you looked at the chairs that we had into the sanctuary, knowing what you know about your weight, which we're not even gonna touch that with a hundred million foot pole, but you had to make a trust decision.
You had to decide, does that chair that I'm about to sit in look like it can hold my weight?
You had to evaluate it, and we make those decisions all the time.
You know, have you ever seen someone bungee jump off a bridge?
Now number one, those folks ain't right, you know?
I think they're a few fries shy of a Happy Meal.
But you have to evaluate the guy, the skill of the guy who measures the cord.
so that it is going to snap before they hit bottom.
And you better make sure that that dude knows math, right?
You can watch Bungie Jumping.
You can even watch documentaries about Bungie Jumping.
You can have a Bungie Jump at your home.
And you may know a lot of people who have Bungie Jumped.
But you cannot, you will not place your trust until you decide to Bungie Jump.
You can know all about it.
You can know all about, you know, measured it out yourself, you know you're right, you know you're correct, you trust the people who do this for a living, but you haven't trusted it unless you've done it.
And folks, the same thing can happen in our relationship with God.
We can know all the facts about God, but at some point we have to trust God.
I love that song that we sang, the worship team did a great job today picking out songs about surrender, but I love that song.
about, you know, God is chasing you, that God, His goodness is running after me.
His goodness is running after me, and it talks about I'll surrender.
And the question is, right, do you believe that God's goodness is running after you?
Because the central question about will I trust God or not is who do I believe God to be?
If you're like me, and I grew up with, you know, in a Hellfire and Brimstone church,
where they almost had fire burning beneath our seats.
Some of the other ones, some of you guys probably have too.
I think that the bad part of that kind of preaching is great for certain people, but that kind of preaching also can scare people and cause them not to really want to know more about God because all they've heard is about the wrath of God and hardly anything about the love of God.
You know, we can fall into that trap and we have to believe that God is who He says He is so that we are willing to bungee jump with Him, right?
Not just know the facts around Him, but to actually experience Him ourselves.
The Bible says without faith, it is impossible to please God because anyone who comes to Him must believe that He exists
Right?
First, you have to believe he's there and that he rewards those who earnestly seeks him, meaning he is good to those who earnestly seek him.
But if you don't believe what the scripture says about him existing or about him being rewarding, then it's going to be a lifelong struggle to try to place your faith in him.
You can believe there's a God.
You can even believe that he can make life better.
You can believe that he'll take people to heaven when they die, but for a lot of people, God is like watching somebody do it.
You know it's done, but you'll never do it.
I like this quote here.
It says, trust is not a passive state of mind.
It is a vigorous act of the soul.
Get that?
It is a vigorous because why?
Because trust involves spiritual warfare.
Trust involves
the flesh and the world and the devil coming up against you because the last thing that he wants to see is you go all in for Jesus.
Right?
If he doesn't win the battle for your soul when you become a believer then his job is to make you as ineffective as he possibly can by keeping you distracted or by telling you that God is not who he says he is.
And he says here it is a vigorous act of the soul
by which we choose to lay hold on the promises of God and cling to them, despite the adversity that at times seeks to overwhelm us.
That's from his book, Trust in God, even when life hurts.
Well, as we go forward in here, we see in the Lord, the object of your trust is more important than the amount of your trust.
As we were talking about earlier, we express trust every day of our lives.
When you email a letter, you're counting on that server to get it to the person that you emailed it to.
When you go to the bank or when you go to the grocery store and you use your debit card, you're counting on your bank to transfer the funds over to the bank from your account.
You're counting on them to take care of it, to pay for it.
Why?
Because you trust them.
And here the key component in this verse is the object of your trust, the Lord.
And it's possible to have strong faith in the wrong thing, isn't it?
Millions of people around the world have strong faith in the wrong thing.
I recall a terrible train wreck that occurred in the early 20th century.
A passenger train collided with a freight train outside of Philadelphia.
When the officials arrived at the scene, they found a lot of people had suffered casualties.
And the engineer of the passenger train was fatally injured, and when they reached him after cobbling through and trying to get through all of that, you know, mauled metal and stuff, they found him, and they crawled over there, and he grabbed a sheet of paper, and he wrote his last words were, somebody gave me the wrong directions.
And I wonder how many people will face eternity saying somebody gave me the wrong directions.
How tragic that would be.
Another lie that we often accept is it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere about it.
Well, that's nuts, right?
That's a good way to disconnect from reality.
You know, yeah, I believe that the Cowboys are in the NFC championship game.
I mean, I believe it with all my heart.
Well, Bolligy, I'm gonna be really disappointed when I turn that thing on and find out that even though I had a massive amount of belief, they're just not there.
Right?
You can be sincere and be sincerely wrong, my friends.
I know I've been sincerely wrong, meantime.
Just ask Becky.
But a little faith in the right object can make all the difference.
Jesus said, if you have faith, the smallest mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, be uprooted and planted in the sea, and it will obey you.
Why?
Why doesn't he say, you know, why doesn't he say, if you have faith in this diamond,
then you can pick it up and cast it into the planet in the sea and it will obey you.
Well, the reason is because a diamond is nothing but a dead rock.
Whereas in a mustard seed, it contains life, right?
It contains life.
You plant it, it'll grow and produce mustard and more and more mustard seeds.
You know, we've all heard of the placebo effect.
It's a real scientific thing.
In fact, I read this study that was done by an orthopedic surgeon at Houston Veterans Medical Center.
And this experiment was done on 180 patients for who were veterans all age 75 and younger.
They all had knee arthritis in their knees who reported at least moderate pain.
despite maximal medical treatment for the past six months.
And so what they decided to do is, well, let's randomize this and actually see if all this stuff we're doing in the knee works.
And so they were randomized into three study arms, arthroscopic debridement, arthroscopic lavage, or a sham operation.
When you had the sham operation, they would actually put you to sleep
And then they would simply cut four little holes around there and sew them back up and do nothing.
For the other two groups, they did get into the knee itself.
Well, the primary outcome, no matter which of the three that they had, was knee pain two years after surgery.
And what the authors found is no significant difference between treatment arms of the study that concluded routine arthroscopic lavage, debridement, were no better than the sham procedure of just cutting four little holes in the knee and sewing it right back up.
Isn't that amazing?
The placebo effect shows us something really profound.
It shows us that faith isn't magic.
But it is catalytic.
It unlocks action.
It prepares the heart.
It positions us for transformation.
And Jesus said, according to your faith, be it done into you.
It is not the size of my mustard seed that counts.
It is the object of my faith that counts.
It's better to have an ounce of living faith in a living God than to have a ton of faith and something dead.
Well, then it says with all your heart.
You could trust God, right?
But if your trust is experimental, you know, I have a lot of people I find there, you know, and I've been there too, our trust is experimental.
There's something out there on the horizon that we want really, really bad.
It may be a job that we want.
It may be a, you know, it may be a disease that we want a cure for.
some kind of a family situation that we want to happen.
And so people, sometimes people will conduct these little experiments to see if God will help them, right?
They'll say, well, you know what?
I mean, I haven't prayed my entire life, but I'm going to pray hard for the next week.
And I'm going to give God a chance when I'm doing that.
But if God doesn't come through on his end of the bargain, then I'm done with him as if you can bargain with God, right?
I mean, how foolish is that?
Some people will say, you know what Lance?
I told God, this happened to me all the time in Texas when I would visit people in the hospital all the time.
If God gets me through this, you're going to see me in that church every single Sunday.
Well, that would maybe last two Sundays.
We have to be willing rather than trying to make God into a science experiment where
If he does what I want him to do, I'll stick with him, but if he doesn't do what I want him to do, I'm out on him.
Instead, we must be willing to trust God with all of our heart because there are no half-hearted bungee jumpers, right?
A bungee jumper is totally committed.
Jeremiah chapter 29 verse 13 says, you will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart.
If you're having difficulty
Surrendering your life over to God, it may be that you simply don't know Him well enough.
It may be that in your heart of hearts, you still wonder, does He love me, despite my sin?
In your heart of hearts, you may still wonder, oh, I've seen that goodness of God's on, but is He really chasing after me?
Is God kind?
Is God good?
Does God want the best for me?
If the answers to those things are iffy in your mind, then the chances of you surrendering to God are slim.
But if you know God well enough that you know for a fact he wants those things for you, then full surrender is barely taking a chance.
I tell you, I'd lot rather take my chances
trying to serve God and stay chained to that chariot.
And I had take my chances out on my own, not chained to the any chariot.
If somebody came up to me and a stranger said, I want you to ask you to do something for me.
I'd say, well, what is it you want me to do?
Then if they said, well, I'm going to tell you what it is, just trust me.
Tell me you'll do it first.
And then I'll tell you what it is.
And I'd say, you're crazy, Jack.
I don't even know you.
But if my wife came up to me and she said, Lance, will you do something for me?
My response is going to be, of course.
Sure, darling.
What is it?
And she would say, never mind.
Just trust me.
And I would say, OK, right?
I'm not saying I wouldn't, I might fear the stranger less than I feared my wife if she did that.
I'm not sure.
But I would fear, but I know that she loves me.
I know that she's not going to ask me to do something that's going to bring me harm.
I know that she's going to ask me to do something that is going to be good for me.
And you know, when, when you're first married, maybe you think twice about that, but if you've been married any length of time, you know, because there is no trust from love at first sight, right?
Trust is built as love grows and develops.
In the same way that I trust that my wife of 31 years is not mean harm for me, hopefully that day.
And you spend time, it's the same thing.
When you spend time with God in your trust and your hope and do you develop that confidence in Him, you're gonna be more apt to say, yes, God, I surrender to you without having to know what it is you're asking me to do the first time because that's faith.
Then he says, lean not on your own understanding.
This first doesn't say you can lay aside your intelligence, right?
The whole book of Proverbs is about how to gain wisdom.
Proverbs also teaches there's great value in common sense, right?
Which makes common sense very uncommon.
It's good, you know, for we, in Texas, we should say that guy, the fellow there's got a horse sense.
And you probably use that term here.
It's probably used all over.
Horse sense just means that guy's got common sense.
He knows how to walk and chew gum at the same time, or he could tie his shoes, you know?
We have pretty low bars in Texas for that kind of thing.
But this verse addresses the tendency people have to want to figure out everything before they trust it.
You know, Missouri is the show me state.
Because supposedly they have an attitude of skepticism that demands proof.
And so they say, well, I'll believe it when I see it.
God never promises you'll see him before you trust him.
That's important.
God never promises that you will see him before you trust him.
And if you try to reduce everything about God down to your five senses, then you're going to fall into the trap of thinking you have to understand the reason
for everything that happens to you.
We often hear when something really terrible has happened in the world, we often hear that was a disaster of biblical proportions.
Why do we say that?
Well, we say that because the Bible describes stories of deaths of thousands of people from famines, earthquakes, and floods.
And if you rely on your understanding only on your own understanding, you'll spend most of your time in frustrated worry.
instead of trusting God.
People often ask, why do these things happen?
And there is no real great, perfect answer to that question.
These things happen because we live in a messed up, fallen world, and we are the ones who messed it up.
That's why these things happen.
The entire book of Job, right?
Job and his friends, they spent 37 chapters trying to figure out why there is human suffering, and then God comes to them,
And he says this, as the heavens are hot, well, and Job, and Job, he says, well, where were you?
Who do you think you're smart enough to figure out what's going on?
God says, who do you think you are to think you're smart enough to figure out what's going on?
Were you around when I created the universe?
Right?
So he tells him, I'm God, you're not.
You don't have all the information.
You have some of the information.
You can't see the end from the beginning, and that's what makes him God.
That's why he says, as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.
Author Lynn Austin has written a book called, it says, Candle in the Darkness.
It's Civil War Historic Fiction.
And in the book, one of the slaves is describing faith
to one of the girls that lived at the plantation.
And he says, faith, don't come in a bushel basket, Missy.
It come one step at a time.
Decide to trust him for one little thing today.
And before you know it, you'll find out he's so trustworthy you be putting your whole life in his hands.
And that's as simple as it gets.
And as true as it gets.
You know, if God wanted to, he could lift the roof off of this building and go, boom!
Right?
And yeah, next Sunday we'd probably have a lot bigger crowd.
But that would be faith by sight.
And not faith by trusting that he is who he is.
Real quickly he says, in all your ways acknowledge him.
This simply, that word acknowledge simply means to recognize the presence.
The opposite of acknowledge is to ignore.
I mean, imagine I had a friend.
I had a friend this week call me.
There was a best man at my wedding.
He's at a church in Arkansas and he had a person that had moved up in this area and thought maybe she would need some help.
And so he called me and asked me if we could get with her and it was great.
We could talk about it and stuff.
But imagine if I brought him up here and I took him in and I introduced him to all the great folks that work in our office.
I would acknowledge him by doing that.
When staff meeting begins, I would introduce him to all the people who are present.
I mean, I would acknowledge him.
If I ignored him, people would say, well, who is that with you?
But I just wouldn't answer.
I'd just keep on going.
Listen, in the same way, when Jesus is your Lord, you will recognize His presence with you at all times.
His presence will affect the way that you live and the way that you talk.
It's all about acknowledging that He's with you.
Jesus, if we acknowledge Jesus into every place that we go, and we would probably have
a nicer disposition, a kinder word for people.
There's probably a lot of places we wouldn't go.
If we just acknowledge him, it brings him to our minds.
And then the paths can stay straight.
The apostle Paul was a great example of a man who surrendered his Lordship to Christ.
There was a time, of course, we know when Paul was an enemy of the church,
He had been arrested, he was arresting people, putting them to death because they were followers of Jesus.
But when Paul met Jesus, he raised the white flag of surrender and he said, what would you have me do, Lord?
And as he walked with him and as he got to know more about him, it led him to this place in Galatians chapter two, verse 20, when he says, I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me.
The life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me.
Paul was saying, I am not on the throne of my life.
I have taken my ego, my eye off the throne of my life and I have replaced it instead with God.
And now he is on the throne of my life.
And then finally it says that God will make your paths straight.
In Matthew 7, Jesus said there are two basic pathways of life.
One is a broad super highway that leads to destruction and many people are on it.
But there's also a narrow, straight pathway that leads to eternal life and only a few are on it.
And the question is, which pathway are you on?
I can't answer that question.
You can.
You know the condition of your heart.
Within that pathway is eternal life.
But God also has another pathway there that's special for you.
He has a plan for your life.
You may be afraid to surrender, say, Lord, I'm finally going to get to the place where I surrender.
And then people have told me a lot of times, if I ever finally surrender, I'm afraid God's going to send me to like a tribe of cannibals along the Amazon River.
you know or something like that and my response is well I mean of course I would be scared to have something to do like that but ultimately if that's where God wants me to be I should have enough faith to say that's where God wants me to be he has an idea here right God's pathway for you doesn't lead to misery it leads to joy and blessing the Bible says you have made known to me the path of life you will feel
me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand.
Remember, folks, God loves you.
He has shown you and told you in a million different ways how precious you are to him.
He wants the best for you.
God's will is what you would choose for yourself if you had enough sense to do it.
The Lord has a plan for a plumber, just like he has a plan for a preacher.
He calls some to be electricians, just like he calls some to be evangelists.
His plan is for some to be mechanics and for others to be missionaries.
But I want you to hear this.
If God has called you to be a plumber and you end up a preacher, then you're settling for second best.
There's not one more important than the other.
Just do what God has called you to do.
And then tell everybody about it.
I want to read Sue's testimony that she sent to me.
She said, I came to the Lord on May 9th, 1970.
I was a week away from college graduation as a theater arts major.
College had been closed after riots, building takeovers, et cetera, as a result of the Vietnam War protest.
National Guard were posted.
Still, theater arts, music, and sports continued.
I was offered a job at 20th Century Fox but apprehensive about the life that awaited women in that industry.
We had just finished last performance and we're at a cast party with lots of alcohol and pot.
Being high and contemplating the future, I began to cry.
Most people did not notice, but one fellow who had been a light technician on the show told me he knew someone who could help me.
I asked who he said, Jesus Christ.
This guy went on to become a Baptist pastor in the LA area.
I responded to him.
Chris was his name with a string of profanity.
He didn't give up.
He told me that Jesus came to save me, which I didn't, which didn't make sense.
And if I asked him to come into my heart, he would take control of my life, which again made no sense.
Nevertheless, I felt totally lost and did say to Jesus, come into my heart and take control of my life.
Many think I'm nuts when I tell them that I heard the audible voice of God who said he would come into my life and take control, just a sentence, but the peace
that passes all understanding doesn't begin to describe what happened to my body, soul and spirit right then.
I began shouting, Chris, God is gonna control my life.
He began to pray while others around were saying out loud that I was tripping.
I went home, got a Bible and read the four Gospels out loud.
Three months later, I had a teaching position
at second grade at a Christian school, lots of interesting journeys up and down, but God has never failed.
Don't we want everybody to have an experience like Sue?
If God has changed our hearts, then we can't help but tell people.